
# Purpose #

I developed this toolkit to consolidate macros that I use in my
research and also to share my efforts with anyone interested, but in
particular to share with my fellow labmates and graduate students.  As
a disclaimer, not all macros are finished and some are very specific
and situational, so I encourage anyone to update the files for
readability, user-friendliness, flexibility, and parsimony.

# Installation and usage #

In order to use this repo, run the following shell and git commands
(this should run if using Git Bash or other git shell on Windows):

```bash
    cd ~
    git clone git://github.com/lwjohnst86/sasToolkit.git
```

Then, include the following code into the top of your SAS file/script
and run it:

```java
    filename macrolib '~/sasToolkit/src/';
    options mautosource sasautos=(sasautos macrolib);
```

At this time, the `macro.sas` file will need to be sourced in the SAS
file/script, using this command:

```java
    %inc '$HOME/SAS/src/macros.sas';
```

# Version numbering and meaning #

Version numbers are specified as tags in git.  They are in the format
as #.#.#.# (for example, 1.0.4.8 or 1.8.13.11).

* The first number represents a version that has undergone major
  changes and is likely incompatible with past versions.
* The second number represents the state the macros were in when I
  published a paper.  For example, if I published a paper with the
  previous version being 1.0.6.0, after the paper has been accepted,
  the version will change to version 1.1.6.0.  Therefore, if anyone
  needs to go back to check my macros used at that time, they do so
  using the version number.
* The third number represents that I have added `n` number of new
  macros.  For example, if I added 4 new macros from the previous
  version (eg. 1.0.3.4), the new version would be 4 numbers ahead
  (eg. 1.0.7.4).
* The fourth number represents that I have made a change to an
  existing macro that would change the functioning of that macro or
  added an arguments.  For example, if I added a new argument plus
  edited an existing argument to function differently, the version
  number would go from, eg., 1.0.3.4 to 1.0.3.6 (+2).

Table: Description of what each version number (in order) means in the
versioning system.

| Number               | Meaning                       |
|----------------------+-------------------------------|
| First (eg. 1.0.0.0)  | Major changes. Incompatible   |
|                      | with previous versions.       |
|                      |                               |
| Second (eg. 0.1.0.0) | State macros were in after    |
|                      | one of my manuscripts was     |
|                      | accepted for publication.     |
|                      |                               |
| Third (eg. 0.0.1.0)  | Addition of a new macro       |
|                      |                               |
| Forth (eg. 0.0.0.1)  | Changes to an existing macro  |
|                      | that affects it's functioning |
|                      |                               |

# Documentations #

## HTML ##

Contains the documentations generated by
[DocItOut](http://choonchernlim.com/docitout/).  Use the `index.html`
file in the `doc/html/` or the `documentation.html` file link in the
parent folder to view the documentation.

## PDF ##

All the html documentation files have been merged together and sent
into [pandoc](http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/index.html) to be
converted into a single file manual for those that like pdf and
printable versions of documentations.

# Contents #

There are two primary folders in this toolkit.

## `doc` folder: ##

The `doc` folder contains the documemtation for the macros.  So far, I
haven't found many documentation generators for SAS, one of which is
called [DocItOut](http://choonchernlim.com/docitout/) that is pretty
good at generating html pages for looking at the comments and
parameters of the custom macros.  Open the `documentation.html` file (in the
parent directory) in a web browser (for example, Firefox) to view the
documentation.

There is also a single file manual in the `doc/pdf` folder.  This was
generated using code in the Makefile.

## `src` folder: ##

This folder contains all macro files.  The format to how the comments
are structured are important and need to be consistently adhered to in
order for DocItOut to work.  Please, if you plan to add to the macros
and submit a pull request, be consistent with the way the code is
structured (see below).

# Style guide for writing comments and code #

For writing comments, I based much of what I will be describing below
on `DocItOut.pdf` (found in the `doc/` folder).  In addition, I also
used the website
["How to write comments for the Javadoc tool"](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/index-137868.html),
which provides a more comprehensive documentation on how to write
comments that are similar to Java (SAS has similar syntax to Java).
For more reference on things to keep in mind when writing
code/documentations, see the files in the `doc/` folder. The file
`WritingCodeThatLasts.pdf` by Sandra Minjoe is an excellent resource
on practices and techniques to make code have greater longevity.  The
file `WritingMacros.pdf` (slides) by Patrick Breheny is a great
resource to learning how to learning how to write macros.  Also, I
have a few blog posts on my
[website](www.sciencestatisticsandlife.com) that go through
step-by-step on learning to do basic SAS macros, at least to get
started.

When writing up SAS macros, always include documentation.  To make it
quicker to type of formatted documentation, use the table below for
using "quick tags" that can be converted later.

| Quick tag                                 | Converted html tag    | Detail             |
|-------------------------------------------+-----------------------+--------------------|
| {{{                                       | <code>                | Start a code block |
| }}}                                       | </code>               | End code block     |
| {{word}}                                  | \<code\>word\</code\> | Code font          |
| [word]                                    | \<b\>word\</b\>       | Bolds word         |
| \\\\ (end of line)                        | \<p\>                 | Paragraph break    |
| ' \&' (space, then \& at the end of line) | \<br\>                | Line break         |

Table: Quick tags to use when writing up SAS comment documentation,
which can be converted to the html tags by using the `sasQuickTags.sh`
in my [git `bin` repo](github.com/lwjohnst86/bin).  These html tags
are used by DocItOut when creating the documentation.

Code within the SAS macro should always be indented properly and a new
line should be started after the SAS semicolon ";" or if the code is
longer than 80 characters, whichever comes first.
